In this lecture, we're going to learn about a Selenium Jar file as well as learn how to download and
import it.
So what is a jar file?
JAR stands for Java Archive.
It's a file format based on the popular zip file format and is used for aggregating many falls into
one.
We can import your files into our Java project so that we can then use those classes in our project.
For example, if we didn't import Selenium Java file, then we wouldn't be able to access various Selenium
web driver methods and classes.
So we have the following steps ahead.
We'll go to a website to download the Selenium Java Jar file.
We'd open up clip's idea and import the jaw file into our project.
Then we would write the test script.
So a Java class that can use this content is imported from that jar file.
So let's download and import the jar file.
So the first step is to open up Chrome and in a search engine.
I'm going to search for Selenium, Java, download and then click enter.
The first result should be to selenium dot dev and there's a downloads link here and if I select it,
it should take you to the following page.
So we need to download from this section called Selenium Clients and web driver language bindings.
And you can see on the Java section there's a stable release for version four.
But as I have explained in a previous lecture, this course has been built using a very late version
of Selenium Free.
So I'm going to download version 3.1 for 1.59.
So instead of clicking this, if we carry on scrolling down, you should see a previous release section
and if I click this link, you'll see a list of different versions we could download.
So I'm looking for selenium.
3.141.59, which is here.
If I expand this, you'll see this download options and we need this.
Selenium Java 3.14159. zip.
So if I select that, that should begin the download process.
So I'm going to click that download and select show in folder and that will take us to the location
of where the zip file resides.
So I am going to drag that over to my desktop and then I'm going to close this window.
And so what we need to do now is unzip the contents of this file.
So it makes sense for us to store this in a good location.
So I'm going to use the resources folder and I'm going to right click select new and create a new folder,
and I'm going to call this folder Selenium Hyphen Jar.
I'm then going to track this window over, double click on the zip folder and we should see the content.
So I'm going to highlight all these and I'm going to drag them over to that new folder.
And on doing so that will unzip the content to that new location.
So we can now close these windows.
So to close this one and I'm going to close this one here.
And then I'm going to open up the eclipse.
So we're going to use the class from the last lecture, which is this car class.
So I'm going to prove that we don't yet have access to Selenium Java classes and methods.
So I am going to highlight this exist in mine and simply delete it.
I'm then going to write the following.
Web driver.
Driver equals new chrome driver.
Then round brackets and in the semicolon.
So we can see that as errors, which is implied by red lines under these two words.
And if a hover over web driver, you'll see I'm given the following options.
And if I do the same to Chrome driver, you'll see that I've got limited options out.
So what I need to do is import the classes for these two words, and I can't currently do that because
I've yet to import the jar file to my project.
So I'm going to go to file and save and then I'm going to right click my project intro, go to properties.
And you'll see an option for Java build path.
And then if I select the library's tab, it should display something similar to the below.
So notice says module and class path and I'm unable to select the buttons.
But if a highlight class path by clicking it, you'll see that these buttons then become available.
And I'm going to select the Add external Jaws button.
I'm then going to navigate to my resources folder from my desktop.
And I'm going to select this Selenium Jar folder.
And I'm going to highlight these two files here and then click open and they should then be listed underneath,
underneath the class path.
If I select class path again and then select add external chars.
I'm then going to double click this folder.
And I'm going to then highlight these files and then select open so that they get added to.
And all those files should now be listed underneath class path.
And then I need to select applying close.
So with our car crossed still open if I hover over Webb driver, notice how I've got additional options
here and I've got an option to import web driver from selenium.
If I click this, notice how an import is then placed at the top of my class.
So that proves that we're able to import Web driver from the Selenium classes.
And if I do the same to Chrome driver, I've got an option to import Chrome drive from selenium.
And if I click it, another import is listed.
So now if I cite this class, you'll see that the errors then go away.
So what this proves to us is that when we imported the selenium jar and imported it into our project,
we then had access to the Selenium classes and methods.
So this is all I wanted to cover in this lecture.
In the next lecture, we'll begin downloading the Web drivers.